inevitably inexorably Bernie Sanders
lost the primary vote he failed to
become the Democratic nominee in the
presidential election how and why did
this happen for two very simple but I
daresay profound reasons that have been
discussed at greater length of this
channel in the past back when I thought
that the analysis might have some small
chance of actually changing the course
of events as they unfolded with again
all the inevitability and all the
inexorability of a can of tomato soup
rolling down a staircase thunk
thunk-thunk first thing is something
that Bernie Sanders has in common with
myself it has in common with Mitt Romney
in this life you often have to choose if
you'd rather lose the game playing by
your own rules or win the game playing
by everyone else's what do I mean well
take a look at Mitt Romney there are
many many many snippets of interviews
you can see here on YouTube from back in
the days and MIT Romney had a chance at
becoming president of States and they
were asking him either politely or
employee was he willing to reflect on
Mormonism the religion of his
forefathers but not the religion of his
voters not the religion of his
constituency not the religion of the
country he was trying to leave was he
able and willing to reflect on Mormonism
and you know find fault in it admit
wrongdoing
maybe admit atrocities in the past was
he able to criticize or even reject this
religion mmm for the sake of that
greater good that all politicians are
supposed to aspire to represent and Mitt
Romney's answer was no no no no Mitt
Romney
would rather lose the election adhering
to his own principles Mitt Romney would
rather lose playing by his own rules
than win playing by everyone else's if
Mitt Romney really wanted to be
president noted States he should be
willing to reject Mormonism and convert
to Judaism he should be willing to go
and get circumcised and wear a yarmulke
I'm not joking all right if you're not
willing to take your personal sense of
pride that you still have the same
religion as your forefathers and throw
it away why are you even playing the
game
this isn't dirty oh it gets way dirtier
than this right if you want to play to
win and if if the polling shows that
what would really help Mitt Romney would
be to reject the Mormon faith and
recognize the much more profound truth
found in Maimonides and the first five
books of the Old Testament he should
embrace that wholeheartedly you know see
what that does for his vote count
support the Republican Party because it
was a huge problem that Mitt Romney was
attached to this somewhat menacing and
genuinely scandalous history of the
Mormon faith in United States America
the history the historical record the
historical reality of what Mormonism was
is shameful okay Bernie Sanders is in
exactly the same position with socialism
to a lesser extent he was in the same
position even with his dotted line
connections to communism all right would
it really have been so hard for Bernie
Sanders to do exactly what Elizabeth
Warren did and say that no he doesn't
represent socials no he doesn't
represent communism that no in a
meaningful sense he embraces and accepts
capitalism right that's not the kind of
guy Bernie Sanders has been Bernie
Sanders has always been the kind of guy
who'd rather lose playing by his own
rules than win playing by everyone
else's okay so we knew that from day one
and we knew that four years ago we knew
that ten
years ago this has always been Bernie
Sanders character what why couldn't
Bernie Sanders just join the Democrat
Party in case you didn't know Bernie
Sanders remained an independent you were
mean not a member of the Democrat Party
but seeking Democrat humph nation it's
completely surreal it's completely
absurd so like he wants to cling to this
principle where he doesn't recognize he
doesn't approve of the very party whose
approval he's seeking contention he's
seeking this shows the same inflexible
attitude he wants to play games with
words like democratic socialism and
Social Democrat right nobody wants to
vote for right he's not willing to come
out and say what you know again
Elizabeth Warren says or any other
politician says he's not willing to come
out and say hey socialism and communism
may have been the religion of his
forefathers in the same sense that Mitt
Romney comes from a Mormon background
but that's that's in the past now that
now and for the future Bernie Sanders
represents something different Bernie
Sanders maybe represents a version of
compassionate capitalism that's not
going to be alienating to voters that
would have been the way to play to win
but from day one Bernie Sanders was
deeply committed to playing to lose and
I said at the outset this is something
he has in common with Mitt Romney I find
fault myself in the same way every so
often people give me advice on how to
have a hit video on YouTube of course
sometimes people are just idiots they're
giving you terrible advice but once in a
while I get a suggestion it's good
advice it would work get me ten thousand
views there's nothing on a video but I'm
not willing to do it like I'd rather
lose playing the game by my rules I
value my own sense of integrity etc said
more than I value winning playing by
those other rules whereby and being
encouraged by the game okay point two is
real simple but the implications for
each of us is profound Bernie Sanders
started this race not just being further
to the left than the majority of the
America
people he was further to the left than
the majority of members of the Democrat
Party so right from the outset when you
combine that with 0.1 that he's an
inflexible
unwilling to compromise unwilling to
adapt person that he's a person who is
unwilling to even adapt he's unwilling
to even use new rhetoric he's unwilling
to even change the packaging the the
wrapping that's on the set of policy
proposals he's pursuing right there you
have a very clear path to failure and
there's really no clear path to victory
whatsoever but what do you do let me ask
you what do you do in a Democratic
Society if you know that now and for the
future for your whole lifetime you're
always gonna be in the minority you're
always gonna be on the losing side now
we have a contrast for most of you in
the audience you were alive when this
happened if you think about the status
of gay rights and homosexuality under
Bill Clinton and then the status of gay
rights and homosexuality under President
Obama say moving forward just a few
years year by year all the politicians
changed their position on this and at
the time Donald Trump was elected even
Donald Trump made very clear statements
that he supports equal rights for gay
people gay marriage and so on that he is
he's not an opponent of gay marriage and
gay rights that was within the
Republican Party a somewhat
controversial aspect to the candidacy of
Donald Trump so on that particular issue
he's not he's not right-wing okay um the
gay rights issue went from being very
marginal powerless weak voiceless a
minority within a minority to being a
dominant victorious discourse gay for
most of us for most of the people in
this audience at least the things we
care passionately about put us in a
voiceless powerless minority within our
societies and we know we'll be there
definitely for the next twenty years
maybe for the next 50 years you know
what it sounds absurd to say what
happens if you live in a society where
nobody cares about
Earthcare well you may you know whatever
the issues are you care passionately
about you know I care passionately about
the fact that every day hundreds of
thousands of cows are killed with a bolt
gun to the head and I live in a society
where absolutely nobody else around me
cares about that I think it's a very
obvious injustice to use an example
where I'm really in a small minority I
think it's a various very obvious
injustice and it's a calamity that
gambling is legal and that the
government makes money out of gambling I
don't see how that's morally acceptable
or why anyone should make excuses for it
it's even worse that the government
makes money out of this as opposed to
being a purely private sector a purely
criminal enterprise there all kinds of
things that to me are outrages and that
it seems to me if 51% of people in the
democracy had sensible rational detached
views about it we ought to make rapid
progress on all these issues and above
all else let me just say I'm an atheist
and more than just an atheist I'm
actually a nihilist or a nihilistic
atheist so I'm within a minority of a
minority of a minority and completely
alienated from discourses on all kinds
of issues including public education
health diet what-have-you ecology and so
on right what is the way forward when
you know that if you're not going to be
dishonest if you're not going to be
Machiavellian if you're going to be a
person of principle if you're going to
be honest and consistent the way Bernie
Sanders was where you know that puts you
in a position where you'll always lose
will always be the minority with a
minority and the issues you care about
may put you in a much smaller weaker
voiceless minority than Bernie Sanders
okay if you've been watching my channel
for a long time you already know the
answer to that question there is a way
forward in a democracy right it's the
same way forward that was taken by
mothers against drunk driving an issue
that a puny percentage of people care
about almost nobody cares about drunk
driving they built one of the most you
know effective influential foundations
in the history of the United States of
America or in the history of the world
they really change not just legislation
they lived they changed the way people
all over America spend their time on
Friday
Saturday nights they changed the way the
taxi industry works the way the
entertainment industry works they
gradually have changed the the culture
of alcohol consumption of driving of
reducing the number of deaths and the
roads so on and so forth okay
it's an issue that only a small minority
can care about but within a democratic
society within a pluralistic society
with freedom of speech and free markets
and fundraising and institution building
and community building you can make a
difference you can play to win but the
way to win the way forward is not going
to be following in Bernie's footsteps of
Bernie Sanders the footsteps of Bernie
Sanders from day one clearly and
obviously could lead only to failure